⚠️: Please read the below carefully.

- you should ONLY use this SDK if you are trying to [register](https://www.builder.io/c/docs/custom-components-setup) your RSCs (react server components) in Builder. That is its only advantage over our standard React SDKs.
- our [Gen1](../../../react/) and [Gen2](../react/) React SDKs work perfectly well with all versions of Next.js. The only feature they do not support is registration of RSCs.
- to allow registering RSCs, this SDK must make compromises. Most notably, it does not support interactivity within the rendered content. See the [features grid](https://github.com/BuilderIO/builder/tree/main/packages/sdks#features) for more information.
- this SDK only works in the NextJS App Directory.
- this SDK is marked as "Beta" due to the missing features mentioned above. As of this time, there are no solutions to acheiving interactivity in this SDK. It is however actively maintained and developed alongside all other SDKs.

# Builder.io React NextJS SDK (BETA)

This is the Builder NextJS SDK, `@builder.io/sdk-react-nextjs`. It is intended to be used _only_ with NextJS's app directory, and has hard dependencies on NextJS-specific functionality that only works in the app directory.

For usage information, look at the [examples](#examples).

## Mitosis

This SDK is generated by [Mitosis](https://github.com/BuilderIO/mitosis). To see the Mitosis source-code, go [here](../../).

## Feature Support

To check the status of the SDK, look at [these tables](../../README.md#feature-implementation).

## Getting Started

```
npm install @builder.io/sdk-react-nextjs
```

## Examples

- [Next.js SDK](../../../../examples/next-js-sdk-gen-2-experimental-app-directory)
